Explain theme creation for the manager (#1347)
contao/docs: docs/manual/guides/manager-theme.en.md

---
title: "Create a Manager Theme"
description: "Create a Contao Manager Theme."
aliases:
  - /en/guides/manager-theme/
weight: 100
tags: 
  - "Theme"
---

When installing via the [Contao Manager](/en/installation/contao-manager/), you can optionally specify an available theme.
We will show you here how to create this theme. This is not only interesting for theme providers. You can 
basically create your own page structure, including extensions and layout, and use it during the Manager [Installation](/en/installation/install-contao/). 

![Contao per Contao Manager installieren]({{% asset "images/manual/guides/en/manager-theme-en.png" %}}?classes=shadow)

> ## Theme-Manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Theme Manager
```

You can use the "[Theme Manager](/en/layout/theme-manager/)" in the backend to [export and import](/en/layout/theme-manager/manage-themes/) 
existing themes as a `.cto` file. However, this exported `.cto` is not suitable for use in the Contao Manager! It requires further information.

## Theme Structure for the Manager

In addition to the actual "`assets`", a theme for the Contao Manager requires a "`theme.xml`", the current "`composer.json`" and a
"`SQL dump`". This data can be summarized as a "`.zip`" archive and then be used in the Contao Manager. As an orientation of the structure 
the "`.zip`" [archive](https://github.com/contao/contao-demo/tags) of the "Contao Demo" is helpful.

### Assets and the "theme.xml"

> You can obtain this data from your existing installation via the "[theme manager](/en/layout/theme-manager/)" in the backend. The exported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can obtain this data from your existing installation via the "[Theme Manager](/en/layout/theme-manager/)" in the back end. The exported
```
